Okay, so we have this concept
of jumping up and down.
So first, we only went down,
then we went up and down.
Which directions have we not traveled yet?
>> Left and right.
>> I've traveled left and right.
>> I've traveled the left and
rights before.
[LAUGH] I know them well.
And in doing that, let's look at like
a slightly different mechanic for
that as well.
And then again, you can combine any and
all of these as you want.
You might choose to use all of them.
There's going to be one shocker where
I started to pull them all together at
one point.
But, let's see what that looks like.
So, go ahead I'm just gonna
make sure that's saved, and
I'll publish it in a little bit,
and we'll go to a new one,
just I'm gonna swap this out for,
I don't know something easy.
Okay, so, when we had our left and
right motion earlier,
we basically said,
if holding right, go right.
If holding left, go left, right?
But there's no idea.
You ever run really fast?
You all have run before, right?
And then can you stop all of a sudden?
No, right?
You gotta slow down, right?
You can try to slow down real fast.
If you hit the brake on a car,
you're not just gonna immediately stop.
If somebody hits a brake too fast,
like how you feel it, but
most of the time you're running and
then in the same way you accelerate,
you can decelerate, right?
And so we could have the same mechanic
where maybe whatever your character
is running towards the edge and
they can slow down,
especially like on ice levels where it
can get even a little bit more nuanced.
But we can try that out as well.
Inside this little ball,
cuz I'm gonna do left and right.
I'm gonna have you up and down.
Cuz remember our taco chaser?
That wasn't necessarily a platform or
that was like top down, right?
And we might wanna have
it go in every direction.
So I'll do left and right,
you do up and down, and
then we'll kind of take a look at
some other options there as well.
So we'll go with this loop here.
Same thing we've seen before.
I should put these in my backpack.
Hint, hint, I'll say,
right arrow is pressed.
We'll start by, and again, you could tweak
the mechanics to have an acceleration and
a deceleration.
Somebody earlier did a terminal velocity.
You could start out by accelerate to
a certain speed and then decelerate.
I'm just gonna show you deceleration and
I'll leave you acceleration as sort of
play around with this the same basic idea.
Maybe I'll do, it we'll see how I feel.
And we'll say we'll start the same
thing we had before we'll start by
have a sprint gonna have an x speed,
we've got about velocity or y speed.
Now we're gonna do x speed.
So make a variable X speed.
Cool, and when the game starts we'll set
that to 0, great.
And when the right arrow is pressed,
we will set it to 1.
Set to 1.
Let me get rid of that my variable.
All right, so we'll set it to 1.
What should we do in the left IRS press,
pop quiz?
Negative one.
>> Negative one.
>> Negative one for the win.
All right, we'll set it to negative one.
Now that's not gonna do much
different than we've seen before.
I mean, it will do something
that we don't want it to do.
Prepare, so
we'll do change x by the speed so
that's either 1 or
negative 1 as you can see.
And away we go.
So X speed, change X by X speed.
X speed is zero.
I never put the ball back to
where it's supposed to go.
That'll do it.
Zero.
And so we go, this feels real sad, but
I can't stop the ball.
Once it's going, it's going, right?
So let's actually set maybe these to
10 because that was like molasses.
We back and forth kinda like Pacman.
But what I wanna do is
I wanna hit the button.
I want it to go, but
then I want it to slow down.
So I go, and then, if they're not holding
it then I wanna do is like come to a stop.
And that's not happening right now.
So now it's time for
our good friend multiplication.
If you multiply by less than one,
you start to slow down slowly.
So what we'll do is,
instead of at every loop,
we're gonna set the x-speed
To the current x speed times, like 0.8.
So 80% is fast.
So each each tick is gonna be 80% as fast,
a little bit slower every time until
we get to zero and the nice part is we
don't have to even check because
zero times 80% will give you zero.
So we'll go ahead and we'll just pop in.
What, negative 10, sorry.
I used a plus.
[LAUGH] So that's why I kept trying to
go always to the right, cuz I used plus.
And I don't want to tell you how many
times, standing this far away from my
screen, I can't see
the difference between those two.
Maybe you're younger than me.
All right, pop that in.
Now we should get the effect that we want.
So I hit the button, it kinda come
you can see that I can hold it.
It slows down a little bit.
Now it feels a little bit more
natural in the way I would move
a character in a game, right?
Rather than just going one at a time.
It kind of goes, slows down,